Travis Rickford: Good afternoon. We'll we'll give it another minute here, and then we'll get started
Travis Rickford: right. I think we'll we'll go ahead and get started, and then others may
Travis Rickford: join here in the next few minutes.
Travis Rickford: and in which case we'll have them introduce ourselves. Lena, anything before
Travis Rickford: I get started. Are we good? Are we good to go.
Lena Graziani: I think we're all good to go. Yeah.
Travis Rickford: All right.
Lena Graziani: Baseline.
Travis Rickford: Fantastic. Well, well, thank you. It's
Travis Rickford: it's it's great to see everyone here today.
Travis Rickford: welcome to to session. One of our our 3 sessions together over the next few Wednesdays.
Travis Rickford: I'm excited to be here. Be here with you before we do some introductions. I'll give you just a
Travis Rickford: a brief snapshot of of what we'll be doing over the next 3 weeks. And and
Travis Rickford: today, we're really going to be focused on building community. And that's going to be the main focus of our conversation
Travis Rickford: and
Travis Rickford: getting to know each other as a group, but also how we can support each other over the next next few weeks, and that main goal is to build build community and to address really important concerns like substance, abuse, mental health.
Travis Rickford: and HIV and hepatitis, and
Travis Rickford: build a community that really protects our mental health and encourages us to test, prevent, and treat infections like HIV. COVID-19 and hepatitis there is testing available through this study. So if you
Travis Rickford: are interested in getting that, please please let me know, or or Lena know.
Travis Rickford: and that can be sent to you, and and with that
Travis Rickford: I'll start with introducing myself. My my name is Travis Rickford.
Travis Rickford: and I live in Northwest Kansas, so very middle of the
Travis Rickford: country, very frontier and rural part of Kansas. I'm
Travis Rickford: the director for a regional agency that focuses on public health and early education.
Travis Rickford: I've been involved with several of these other groups. And it's just been
Travis Rickford: fantastic getting to to meet the other participants and and being able to have some really important discussions.
Travis Rickford: And and so with that, I'll invite you to introduce yourself.
Travis Rickford: Go ahead and say your name where you're from, and then
Travis Rickford: why, you're here! Why, you're a part of this conversation.
Travis Rickford: and anyone can start. And after you, after you've done, if you could invite someone else to do the same, that'd be great. So whoever would like to start please go ahead.
Stacey Ford: Well, I will excuse me. My name is Stacy Stacy. I live in Florida, but I am currently in Chicago, so
Stacey Ford: Well, it brings me here. I think everything happens for a reason, and as I've been here, it turns out that my brother really really needed me here, and
Stacey Ford: life or death situation. And so everything is going great in in that way. So with that being said is
Stacey Ford: I'm gonna be here indefinitely to help him, and
Stacey Ford: that's kind of what I'm doing right now. I I didn't plan to ever come back to Illinois, or, you know, to visit and whatnot
Stacey Ford: but for the fact that I am here right now I am high. A 100% invested in helping him. And I'm
Stacey Ford: everything is starting to work out really? Well.
Stacey Ford: And
Stacey Ford: that's all I really can say about me. I mean, I work personal services, and I also work for my sister. So I work remotely.
Stacey Ford: Going through, and a tenure relationship that I'm
Stacey Ford: now. Once again everything happens for reason. My life is completely different from June and July than it is now.
Stacey Ford: So I'm going through a lot of changes. And I'm really excited about it. Everything is work really working out. And I'm really positive about it. And
Stacey Ford: I have my 2 little puppies, and I'm happy and.
Gina Knepp: Bye.
Stacey Ford: Well, and everything is going great. So
Stacey Ford: with that being said, whoever would like to start.
Christian: Well.
Travis Rickford: I'll just go to the the next box, which is autumn
Travis Rickford: on my screen autumn. Would you like to introduce yourself.
Autumn McLaughlin: Yes, my name.
Stacey Ford: Can you hear me?
Travis Rickford: Yes, we can hear you.
Stacey Ford: Oh, okay, thank you. I didn't know if I was muted. Okay, thank you.
Travis Rickford: Yes, and and thanks for your introduction to Stacey.
Autumn McLaughlin: My name is Autumn Mclaughlin. I'm a stay at home, wife. I live in a little town called Rocky Mount, North Carolina.
Autumn McLaughlin: And I just got invited to this focus group. And I I think
Autumn McLaughlin: for me, like mental health is huge because,
Autumn McLaughlin: I'm severely adhd to the point where I can't
Autumn McLaughlin: really work well, because I can't focus
Autumn McLaughlin: so I do a little a few things at home on Etsy and that sort of thing, and focus groups. I'll do you know things like that if I get a chance to but I also have like anxiety
Autumn McLaughlin: and depression. And you know in my family growing up. You did not.
Autumn McLaughlin: you didn't take medication, and you didn't
Autumn McLaughlin: do anything about it. You just prayed about it, and
Autumn McLaughlin: you know, and I and I do pray about it, and I believe in God, but I feel like
Autumn McLaughlin: there are things out there that can help me as well, so
Autumn McLaughlin: I do take the help.
Autumn McLaughlin: So yeah, it's real important for me. The mental health part.
Travis Rickford: Okay, thanks for the introduction autumn.
Travis Rickford: I'll just keep going with the the boxes here, Gina, would you like to go next.
Gina Knepp: Yeah.
Gina Knepp: My name is Regina Knipp, and I am A. I live in Southern Indiana.
Gina Knepp: and I got invited as well to the study, and this is my 1st time doing this. So
Gina Knepp: I'm a little nervous and
Gina Knepp: I have a bit of anxiety and depression as well, and I used to do
Gina Knepp: a lot of drugs. And I actually quit. I have
Gina Knepp: 3 kids now, and they are 2 and 4 twin boys and a little girl.
Gina Knepp: And yeah, my life's changed. But I still have like those cravings. And
Gina Knepp: yeah, I think I, this is the perfect fit for me to kinda get over all that. So
Gina Knepp: that's all for me.
Travis Rickford: Well, thank you, Gina, and we're we're glad to have you here.
Travis Rickford: I I know in the last sessions that I facilitated it. It's amazing how these groups really come together in terms of building relationships. So
Travis Rickford: we're happy to have you here and and don't be nervous.
Gina Knepp: Yes.
Travis Rickford: All right. Let's see, I have. I have William.
William: Hi!
William: I'm William Dannenberg. I'm 67. I'm retired.
William: I live in southwest Illinois, near St. Louis.
Stacey Ford: I'm in Aurora, Illinois.
William: Sorry.
Stacey Ford: I'm in Aurora, Illinois. I don't think I'm too far.
William: Yeah, that's quite a bit north from here, I think.
William: And I don't know what else to say.
Travis Rickford: Yeah.
Travis Rickford: Why are you here?
William: Well, I was invited, and I don't do much during the day, so I thought, why not?
William: So here I am.
Travis Rickford: Alright! We're happy to have you here, William.
Travis Rickford: A Christian.
Christian: Good afternoon or evening. Everyone Christian Anderson.
Christian: I apparently am the old fart at 65
Christian: I live outside of Winston-salem, North Carolina, in a town by the name of Mocksville.
Christian: not far in the Piedmont, not far from the Appalachians, and
Christian: I'm also retired.
Christian: But I had a pretty wild and crazy life
Christian: starting in grammar school, moving forward.
Christian: I was able to maintain, you know, a a career and all that kind of stuff. But
Christian: I I went, I went on the wild side for basically most of my life.
Christian: And so I thought maybe I could in this circumstance. Either. You know.
Christian: I don't know. Not necessarily advice, but I can certainly tell you my experiences, and if there's any benefit to it, great.
Travis Rickford: All right. Thanks, Christian.
Travis Rickford: And is that a i i'm looking behind you. Is that a record on the wall?
Christian: It is. It's I. I earned it as a sales achievement, not as a musician. Okay.
Travis Rickford: Okay, I was like, do we have someone of note here, a grammy award winner, or someone
Travis Rickford: I wish. Yes, okay. Okay.
Travis Rickford: Alright. Well, thank you, Christian. Kenneth, you're you're you're next up.
Christian: I'm sorry.
Travis Rickford: Would you like to introduce yourself, Kenneth?
Christian: Oh!
Lena Graziani: I'm sorry. I'm sorry I was sending an email. Were you speaking to me?
Travis Rickford: No, to Kenneth.
Lena Graziani: Oh! Oh! My goodness!
Travis Rickford: Kenneth, you're on mute. Sorry.
Travis Rickford: Can you take yourself off mute?
Travis Rickford: I can see you talking, but
Stacey Ford: I think he has to click, press the screen. Oh, no, I have my laptop. I touch it. And then maybe I'm wrong. Sorry?
Stacey Ford: Yeah.
Travis Rickford: Yeah, there you are. Kenneth.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Mulder.
Travis Rickford: Yeah.
Stacey Ford: See I go by Matt.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Shoot
Kenneth Matthew Warner: I go by Matt Matthews. My middle name, Kenneth, is my Kenneth is my dad. I'm 50 years old I live in Jackson, Ohio.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: which is Southern Ohio, the beginning of the Appalachian mountains.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: And oh, so yeah.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: I just got out of treatment. So I'm a current mat user. I take versati every month
Kenneth Matthew Warner: I got invited to this
Kenneth Matthew Warner: also. I also have mental health issues. So I'm bipolar and a few other things.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: and maybe I can help.
Travis Rickford: Well, it's it's great to have you here, Kenneth, and and we're actually the same in terms of our names. I I go by Travis. My 1st name is actually William. So I I understand
Travis Rickford: the whole. The whole name thing.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Yeah, all right.
Travis Rickford: Shannon.
Stacey Ford: I go by my my middle name, too, as well.
Travis Rickford: Okay. And and what is that?
Stacey Ford: Well, I don't. It's embarrassing, but it's June like the month June. Stacy Ford and I have always gone by Stacy
Stacey Ford: and even legally. My my license, says, J. Dot Stacy.
Stacey Ford: There's a huge story behind that, and got me in a lot of trouble growing up because I wouldn't respond to June.
Stacey Ford: So
Stacey Ford: I I don't mean to talk too much.
Michael Whale: Hello!
Stacey Ford: Right.
Travis Rickford: That's fine. So would you prefer Stacy or June?
Stacey Ford: Stacey for sure. Please.
Travis Rickford: Okay. Okay. Okay.
Travis Rickford: Shannon. Would you like to introduce yourself?
Travis Rickford: And you're on mute, too?
Travis Rickford: There you go.
Shannon: Alright my name's Shannon. I live in Northwest Tennessee, and
Kenneth Matthew Warner: See.
Shannon: Let's see, I've been on the addict, for I don't know 10 years now, and
Shannon: I have a anxiety problem. And I just I ran across the study group, but I was looking for
Shannon: I don't know.
Shannon: I was looking for something to do like that's some sort of trial, and I thought it was interesting, and I could provide my input. I've been
Shannon: went to rehab not long ago, and I've been I've been trying to find out a way of.
Shannon: you know, just making my life better, making
Shannon: people's lives around me better. So, I thought, you know.
Shannon: should be a good place to be good place, to start.
Travis Rickford: Well, we're happy to have you here, Shannon.
Travis Rickford: Thanks for the introduction.
Travis Rickford: And then finally, we have Michael. Would you like to introduce yourself.
Michael Whale: Yeah. So I'm Michael Whale. I live in well, mountaintop, Pennsylvania now. So my current job is a truck driver, but
Michael Whale: I also have anxiety depression issues and been take taking medication. Went to rehab for it. So
Michael Whale: is there anything else you want to know about me? Let me know.
Travis Rickford: All right. Well, well, thank you all for the introductions, and and just so.
Stacey Ford: Hi Travis.
Travis Rickford: Yes.
Stacey Ford: Travis, I am so sorry I talk. I talk a lot, but to interrupt.
Stacey Ford: I do, too, as well. Have excuse me, have the the
Stacey Ford: anxiety and all that stuff. And I actually just spoke to my 1st psychiatrist this week.
Stacey Ford: So I did leave a lot of stuff out but I do. I'm not perfect, and I could. There's a lot I could add to all that.
Stacey Ford: So I don't want anyone that has introduced themselves to think that
Stacey Ford: I'm not. I'm any different from than them, and I'm going through a lot with my brother, and he's going through an addition. And so I this is this is, I think, like God calling me, that I need to do so. I I think
Stacey Ford: I don't know. I did not know anything about the group or what it was gonna be about, or HIV and
Stacey Ford: hepatitis, I think, is what I thought it was.
Stacey Ford: And so I'm actually very grateful to now know more more than than I have or did know.
Stacey Ford: Okay,
Stacey Ford: So I did leave a lot out, and I don't. I don't want to feel like that. Look at looking at people differently, or something.
Stacey Ford: You know that I am, too, as well, going through all all symptoms and stuff, you know, regarding
Stacey Ford: mental illness.
Travis Rickford: Okay?
Travis Rickford: All right. Well, well, thanks for adding that Stacy. And and today we're really going to
Travis Rickford: over these next 3 weeks. All of us are going to chance are going to have the chance to identify something that's really important for us, and that we want to
Travis Rickford: work on over the next 3 weeks. And and
Travis Rickford: this group or this group session, specifically, we'll focus on relationships and what that looks like
Travis Rickford: for for you specifically, what that support look, that support network looks like for you.
Travis Rickford: And specifically
Travis Rickford: some things that you want to work on over the next week with support from the group. So we'll do some individual work
Travis Rickford: with with all of you. But we'll also do that with the support of the group.
Travis Rickford: So we're gonna start that conversation right now and then, and before we do that, though, just wanna highlight a couple of housekeeping things, one keep your screen on at all times. I always enjoy
Travis Rickford: looking at a face. It makes it makes things a lot easier.
Travis Rickford: 2, when you're when you're not talking, feel free to to put yourself on on mute
Travis Rickford: there will be times where?
Travis Rickford: I interrupt you, and if I interrupt you, it's not to be rude. It's just that we have
Travis Rickford: a lot of people in the space. And I wanna make sure that we get to everyone. So just know that's not being me rude. That's just me. Wanting to make sure we keep the conversation moving.
Travis Rickford: And then finally, this is an open space. So in this space
Travis Rickford: we we call we. We go from 0 to 100 pretty quickly, and where we get to
Travis Rickford: we get to talk about some issues that are important to us. But also how the the group can support that
Travis Rickford: any any questions before we, before we get started.
Michael Whale: No.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Nice.
Travis Rickford: Did you have a question.
Stacey Ford: Can I vape I I'm so sorry. Yes, can I vape like vapor my cigarette vape?
Stacey Ford: No.
Travis Rickford: It. It would be good if you, if you need to do that.
Stacey Ford: To to leave. And then, okay.
Stacey Ford: okay, no, no. Okay. I understand.
Travis Rickford: Alright. Thank you.
Travis Rickford: So with that I would
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Invite the group to think about.
Travis Rickford: Your your current relationships. In your life, and and what that that looks like, and
Travis Rickford: all of us here are are here to support
Travis Rickford: support each other's health, but also relationship with others. And and as we look at
Travis Rickford: different goals that we want to make for ourselves, and that really starts with relationships. And
Travis Rickford: and my 1st question is to you, is.
Travis Rickford: are there any lost, currently any lost relationships in your life?
Travis Rickford: Or are there others that you would like to support in their efforts to
Travis Rickford: address some of the health concerns in their life. So would just like to open up the conversation there.
Travis Rickford: and and we'll start with that.
Stacey Ford: I do. I do excuse me. I am 52. I had my daughter when I was 17, and
Stacey Ford: and I have 3 grandchildren older and
Stacey Ford: she is at this point, not speaking to me
Stacey Ford: pretty much because of the terrible relationship that I was in for the 10 years and that's something that I need to. I'm doing everything I can basically to
Stacey Ford: build that.
Stacey Ford: And I and hopefully, I'm getting really close.
Travis Rickford: And can you? Can you tell us more about this relationship? And and you said that was with your daughter Stacy.
Stacey Ford: Yes, excuse me. Yeah, my daughter. Mallor. Yes.
Travis Rickford: And so tell us more about what happened.
Stacey Ford: I feel I she she
Stacey Ford: She just quit talking to me just cut all contact with me, and I believe there's a lot more to it.
Stacey Ford: But
Stacey Ford: With her husband, who had her brainwashed, who she has since I know, got divorced.
Stacey Ford: They they're no longer together.
Stacey Ford: I have 3 grandbaby grandsons that live pretty close to me in Illinois right now that I'm trying to get to
Stacey Ford: a resolution of
Stacey Ford: of talking to her, and I believe that she is willing to do that at this point right now. So
Stacey Ford: my ex that
Stacey Ford: you know, than I am right now since June, July, since I've been in Illinois,
Stacey Ford: at my brother's house, and alone.
Stacey Ford: I'm I'm not with Eric.
Stacey Ford: and my daughter doesn't know that, and he is the. I think. I believe. I believe that he is the reason why she quit talking to me. She feels he's a devil. She hates him for everything he's done to me, and it's been horrible, and she feels that I chose him
Stacey Ford: over her. I believe that's what she feels.
Stacey Ford: So
Stacey Ford: so yeah, I'm going. I'm I'm going with going through that and life is short, and I mean family is everything, and
Stacey Ford: and that's my number one goal. But I'm
Stacey Ford: have my mom's heart, and I do everything I can for everyone except myself pretty much. And so right now I'm just maybe that's my number. One goal is to have her and my grandchildren in my life.
Stacey Ford: and that that's my number one goal.
Travis Rickford: So, Stacey, what do you think is the 1st step in
Travis Rickford: rebuilding that relationship? What are some
Travis Rickford: things that you might consider to start doing that.
Stacey Ford: I'm just currently leaving my ex and just since June
Stacey Ford: since I come since I left Florida, and am in Illinois right now, but kind of living in both, because I'm moving back and
Stacey Ford: I need to. It's been a disaster for a few months when I was here. That I don't want to get into, and it basically with my boyfriend, or I'm sorry not my boyfriend, my brother, his girlfriend
Stacey Ford: who has been terrorizing them. And right and right now he's in the er or I'm not in the er I took him to the er he's in the hospital, he's admitted he had admitted. Wednesday. And
Stacey Ford: That's what's important to me, and he does. He does like do cocaine and stuff like that where he he's a perfect father, but I'm trying to help him get healthy.
Stacey Ford: He they won't release him. He can't walk. He might have meningitis. He's got congestive heart failure. They can't figure out what's wrong with him, and so I need to get to the hospital, too, as well. But it's a big head scratcher, and it could have something to do. Excuse me with meningitis.
Stacey Ford: It's they can't figure out what it is. They he can't sit still in it.
Stacey Ford: I and his
Stacey Ford: lumbars there he has a spinal tap. So the fur or the 4 4 spinal tap, whatever spinal like number 19, 8, 7, or whatever
Stacey Ford: basically are bad, and they're degenerative, and he can't walk. So they.
Travis Rickford: Wanna, I wanna interrupt you here. When it when it relates to
Travis Rickford: the going back to the relationship with your daughter.
Travis Rickford: What if if that relationship were to
Travis Rickford: move in the right direction for both of you, what would that do for you?
Travis Rickford: How would how would that help you.
Stacey Ford: That would make my my life complete.
Travis Rickford: And and how so? How would that make your life more complete?
Stacey Ford: Because she's the most important thing to me, and to have her and have my grandkids back in my life. I I lived with them in Florida for a couple of years prior to this.
Stacey Ford: And it it they were much younger at that point, and
Stacey Ford: and for them to be just taken taken from me, and I have never seen or talked to them. Send presents and gifts and Amazon cards, Christmas and birthday present everything, and no communication at all. So I
Stacey Ford: that's
Stacey Ford: That would be the best thing that could happen to me.
Travis Rickford: So opening up, opening this up to the rest of the group after hearing Stacy's story, have you
Travis Rickford: have you ever become
Travis Rickford: estranged or or lost someone in your life. And what were those initial steps that you took.
Stacey Ford: There you go!
Travis Rickford: That relationship. And this is for the whole group. Do you have any strategy?
Travis Rickford: Well, I've tried.
Stacey Ford: Well, I have a lot to talk about, I mean, in 2,012. My mother had a fatal accident and died.
Travis Rickford: Yeah.
Stacey Ford: I have 11 siblings. And the day that my mom we took off life support. My dad almost died, and he was diagnosed with stage 4 cancer, and I stayed with him until he died.
Stacey Ford: And at the same time my sister went missing out of Key West, Florida. So she's still missing. That was 2,016.
Stacey Ford: My nephew graduated college, went to China
Stacey Ford: and mysteriously died there. So yeah, I have all these stories.
Travis Rickford: Yeah, but but for now
Travis Rickford: that is. And when you think of those stories as the relationship with your daughter is that the one that's most important to you right now.
Stacey Ford: Absolutely.
Travis Rickford: Okay? And so
Travis Rickford: what? I, what I want to bring the whole group in for the conversation before is for those for those for others in the group.
Travis Rickford: What are some things that you've tried? If you've
Travis Rickford: become estranged or lost a relationship, what are some strategies that you've tried to begin to to rebuild those.
Travis Rickford: and this can be anything.
Michael Whale: Trying to talk. I guess. Yeah.
Autumn McLaughlin: Youngest daughter and my son.
Autumn McLaughlin: My oldest daughter is the only one that has anything to do with me.
Autumn McLaughlin: And it's because of a mistake that I made a long, long time ago, like maybe 10 years ago.
Autumn McLaughlin: And I have. I have.
Autumn McLaughlin: I have tried to talk to her because my son is only ignoring me because
Autumn McLaughlin: of his sister, so he's just kind of like
Autumn McLaughlin: jumped on the bandwagon. I guess
Autumn McLaughlin: you know he's supporting her, but
Autumn McLaughlin: she's told a lot of lies. There is some truth.
Autumn McLaughlin: Then she sold lies, and I the truth.
Autumn McLaughlin: I admitted, and I tried to talk to her.
Autumn McLaughlin: I've apologized numerous times.
Autumn McLaughlin: So is my husband. We've tried to
Autumn McLaughlin: meet her on her level wherever she wanted us to meet her and talk to her.
Autumn McLaughlin: and she's refused. And I've sent her gifts. She's actually living with my mom. She's not even, but
Autumn McLaughlin: maybe 15 min away from me. But she before that we were really close and she's getting married.
Autumn McLaughlin: and I really love the guy that she's marrying, because
Autumn McLaughlin: just a few months ago we were all very close, and but she won't let me
Autumn McLaughlin: have anything to do with her, so
Autumn McLaughlin: she's told me that we're not invited to the wedding, and
Autumn McLaughlin: it just really hurts a lot. So.
Autumn McLaughlin: But I've tried everything that I can think of. I've I've I've sent her gifts. I've
Autumn McLaughlin: but I'm I'm not talking to anyone over at my mom's house at this point, because
Autumn McLaughlin: I feel betrayed because they're all helping her
Autumn McLaughlin: get ready for her special day, but not telling her.
Autumn McLaughlin: you know. Why don't you talk to your mother? Why don't you
Autumn McLaughlin: let your dad walk you down the aisle? Why.
Travis Rickford: And and this is your oldest daughter, Autumn.
Autumn McLaughlin: It's my youngest.
Travis Rickford: Youngest daughter.
Travis Rickford: And what was the?
Travis Rickford: What happened? Was there a moment where that relationship changed?
Autumn McLaughlin: Yeah,
Autumn McLaughlin: 10 years ago. My husband and I were.
Autumn McLaughlin: We met up with some people that were.
Autumn McLaughlin: They just weren't really good people for us to be around.
Autumn McLaughlin: and we ended up in a lifestyle that we
Autumn McLaughlin: didn't need to be in. It was a Swingers group, and
Autumn McLaughlin: and because of because we brought someone in to our home.
Autumn McLaughlin: He
Autumn McLaughlin: hey?
Autumn McLaughlin: It's hard, I mean.
Autumn McLaughlin: He approached her. And he, you know, and it's just.
Autumn McLaughlin: and I would have done anything in the world to protect my children, but I didn't, because
Autumn McLaughlin: I let these people influence me and I.
Autumn McLaughlin: So I apologized, and I tried really hard, but since then she's like started making up other lies like that we left them, and that we abandoned them when we never did. And my oldest daughter is.
Autumn McLaughlin: you know she she talks to my youngest daughter.
Autumn McLaughlin: and you know, because she's trying to have a relationship with her. But it's like
Autumn McLaughlin: she knows that my youngest daughter is lying about a lot.
Autumn McLaughlin: and she told my mother when she was here from Florida, she said, you know
Autumn McLaughlin: she's lying about a lot of it. And my mom was like.
Autumn McLaughlin: Yeah, I know. But you know I have to support her. Well, what about me?
Autumn McLaughlin: You know she's just everyone is
Autumn McLaughlin: even his parents, the the man that she's marrying.
Autumn McLaughlin: They think that we're deadbeat parents because they're believing everything she says.
Autumn McLaughlin: And there was just one mistake.
Autumn McLaughlin: and I apologize, and I know it was a huge one.
Autumn McLaughlin: But I've I don't know what to do.
Travis Rickford: So what's the what's your relationship with your
Travis Rickford: When when you think of people right now in your space that are close to you and provide support.
Travis Rickford: does your?
Travis Rickford: How? What's the relationship look like between you and your husband?
Autumn McLaughlin: He. He's the the most supportive person in the world.
Autumn McLaughlin: You know. He tells me.
Autumn McLaughlin: you know. Just give it to God. And don't
Autumn McLaughlin: you know, I get really stressed. And sometimes I can't like
Autumn McLaughlin: it's like, I just don't want to be, because.
Autumn McLaughlin: you know, I always wanted to be a good mom, and I feel like I failed.
Travis Rickford: So
Travis Rickford: what are some? So you you said you've tried to reach out to her and and and she's just ignoring you.
Travis Rickford: Yeah, she won't.
Autumn McLaughlin: She won't have anything to do with me. She told me to stay out of her life, and
Autumn McLaughlin: you know the weirdest thing is that we were super close, and then
Autumn McLaughlin: my oldest daughter lives in Florida. So we both went to Florida at the same time, because we have a grandson, and we went for his second birthday.
Autumn McLaughlin: and while we were there
Autumn McLaughlin: I said one thing to my youngest daughter, and at the time we were close, and I said, you know you don't have to be so rude, because she's very blunt about.
Autumn McLaughlin: She's just that type of person.
Autumn McLaughlin: and she said something to me, and I thought it was really rude, and I said, You don't have to be rude to me.
Autumn McLaughlin: and it made her mad. And then she brought this whole thing up from 10 years ago.
Autumn McLaughlin: And my thing is, there is
Autumn McLaughlin: any moment that she could have come to me
Autumn McLaughlin: and said, Mom, I need to talk to you about this.
Autumn McLaughlin: But she waited until we were in Florida to just explode and tell everyone there.
Autumn McLaughlin: and it was like she was just lashing out at me, and then, since then she's just cut me off completely.
Travis Rickford: And
Travis Rickford: and again opening this up to the the whole group for those of you that have been in in similar situations, where you've
Travis Rickford: lost a really important relationship, and
Travis Rickford: may have regained it later. But
Travis Rickford: what were some initial steps that you took to start rebuilding those bridges that you had lost.
Travis Rickford: and anyone could answer Michael.
Michael Whale: I guess. Stop like, you know, using and drinking and lying.
Michael Whale: That's the thing like just did. I guess the basic things.
Travis Rickford: So the the 1st step you took was
Travis Rickford: just stopping those things that you mentioned was that.
Michael Whale: Well, yeah, I mean, it's usually said they're done, but it has to get done. Otherwise. I'm just gonna lose everyone. So.
Travis Rickford: So autumn. Is there? Anything that's happening right now? That's still getting in the way of that relationship.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: No, nothing. I've.
Autumn McLaughlin: Completely changed my life. I you know, and
Autumn McLaughlin: but she's just she's holding the past over my head.
Travis Rickford: So I use this. I'll call it a metaphor, but or an example
Travis Rickford: for those of you that have ever been on an airplane. The flight attendant always gives the
Travis Rickford: tells us what we need to do in case of an emergency, and and one of those things is, I always thought it was strange, you know, to to put on the mask. Put the mask on yourself.
Stacey Ford: Yeah, but.
Travis Rickford: And then and then help others. And and that's that's 1 question for for you. Autumn
Travis Rickford: What needs to happen before you, with with you before you even begin to rebuild that relationship. Is there? Is there some healing that needs to take place with you before
Travis Rickford: you? You start working.
Autumn McLaughlin: Oh, great, yeah, I mean, I've got a new doctor and I'm actually she's actually
Autumn McLaughlin: she's trying to diagnose me.
Autumn McLaughlin: I said I had depression. But the the truth is, she's
Autumn McLaughlin: she's between depression and bipolar, and she's not sure which I so
Autumn McLaughlin: she told me to get a therapist about 3 weeks ago, and I haven't gotten one yet.
Autumn McLaughlin: and it probably should.
Travis Rickford: So it is that something that
Travis Rickford: you could could do between now and our next meeting that we have is to find someone. Would that.
Autumn McLaughlin: I can.
Travis Rickford: Would that be a initial 1st step, or is there something else that you need to do before that.
Stacey Ford: Hey? Autumn! What what state do you live in.
Autumn McLaughlin: North Carolina.
Stacey Ford: I might be able to find you a place, I and then, you know, get the message to send it put on the the app we have, or something, you know. I'll look into it. I might be able to find you a place for free, for free.
Autumn McLaughlin: I've got a list that my! I don't know exactly what she does.
Autumn McLaughlin: I mean. She's like the head of the mental health place where I'm going, she says, like she.
Autumn McLaughlin: I asked her if she could be my therapist, because I really like talking to her, but she said that
Autumn McLaughlin: she couldn't, because she does the diagnosis.
Stacey Ford: Oh, that's okay.
Autumn McLaughlin: She gave me a sheet of like people that I need to check into, but I just.
Stacey Ford: That's great! That's great!
Autumn McLaughlin: Do it.
Stacey Ford: Well, if he
Stacey Ford: any questions or any help, I I am very resourceful, so I'll let you know if you have any questions.
Autumn McLaughlin: Thank you.
Travis Rickford: And and, Stacey, you brought up a a good point, so all of you have access to Grove.
Travis Rickford: In addition to the time that we meet here you have access to Grove, and you can communicate with each other. Through that mechanism as well.
Stacey Ford: Thank you.
Travis Rickford: But autumn you between now and
Travis Rickford: and let's just say next week. Do you think it would be
Travis Rickford: Do you think you'd be able to
Travis Rickford: contact and and set up an initial appointment with the therapist to start.
Autumn McLaughlin: I can. I have the names I just
Autumn McLaughlin: I don't know why I mean well, it may be part of the Adhd. I just
Autumn McLaughlin: put things away sometimes, and I don't
Autumn McLaughlin: do them in a timely manner, but I will.
Travis Rickford: So for the rest of you, after hearing from from Stacey and autumn.
Travis Rickford: What is something really important to you right now in terms of of making progress on
Travis Rickford: a lost relationship. Or maybe it's being a support for others.
Travis Rickford: What does that look like for you
Travis Rickford: who would like to go next.
Christian: Hi, this is Christian.
Christian: I had been married for 30 years.
Christian: It was rocky at best. It was kind of a shotgun wedding thing.
Christian: and but we may. You know we had our great times. We had not so great times.
Christian: and I drink, and she didn't like that, and I didn't care.
Christian: So ultimately I started going to counseling, and a A and got myself
Christian: pretty well straight, but then, I mean, she didn't want to participate in any of that.
Christian: and you know we had a
Christian: quote unquote surprise intervention for her
Christian: with our circle of friends who
Christian: we've known, you know I've known for 50 years, and she flocked out.
Christian: So at that stage of the game, you know, I had to make a decision on.
Christian: Was this worth saving or not.
Christian: and unfortunately I had. It was a very tough decision to make, but I made the decision to say.
Christian: You know we're not compatible.
Christian: But there was a lot of, you know self.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Awesome.
Christian: God.
Christian: I had to dig deep within myself to make sure that I understood, and that my rationale, and that my motives
Christian: and motivations were based on sound, and, you know sound facts as opposed to emotions and being selfish.
Christian: and it took number of years.
Travis Rickford: And so are you. And are you and your wife currently together?
Christian: No, we've been divorced now for 10 years.
Travis Rickford: Oh, okay.
Christian: We have 2 boys, though, that are adults. And
Christian: I may, you know I have no problems with her now that we have distance between us.
Christian: and I don't really interface with her that much.
Christian: but it's not like, you know.
Christian: She's gonna burn my house down, or I'm gonna go burn hers down.
Christian: It's a reasonable relationship.
Travis Rickford: What's the relationship like with your your 2 boys?
Christian: They
Christian: They're concerned about my drinking in the respect of my health.
Christian: But as far as the divorce and everything
Christian: I don't know how to put this where it won't sound shitty, but.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Okay.
Christian: She needed some work that she didn't choose to do.
Christian: So. The boys have kind of kept with me, if you will.
Christian: But it, it's actually that relationship with the 2 boys is very good.
Travis Rickford: So what's on your mind right now? And in terms of
Travis Rickford: again using that analogy of putting on the mask
Travis Rickford: for you like what's what's important to you right now, and in your mental and physical health.
Christian: Mentally. I'm I feel like I'm in a good place physically. I am.
Christian: I smoke cigarettes, and I'm 65 years old. I've done so for 50 years.
Christian: That's a hard one to break, and then
Christian: I'm working right now on cutting back on drinking.
Christian: So I have a plan. I gotta stick to it, which is always the tough part.
Travis Rickford: And so when? When is the last time that you've you've drank.
Christian: 2 days ago.
Travis Rickford: Okay?
Travis Rickford: And so making some progress on on. That's really important to you. Right now.
Christian: But definitely I'm trying. What I'm trying to execute on is drinking every other day, not every day.
Christian: And and so.
Travis Rickford: Christian describe your support network to me? What does that look like? Who do you it?
Travis Rickford: Who do you have in your life that supports you?
Christian: My significant other Sandy has been a gem.
Christian: She understands me very well. We've been together for 10 years, and she supports me.
Christian: and at times will be my little.
Christian: you know voice in my head to say, Hey, you know you said you were. Gonna do this, but you're not
Christian: so. She keeps me in balance.
Travis Rickford: So does that.
Travis Rickford: So you just explain this conversation. Is that what you were trying to
Travis Rickford: back when you were you were married, and before the divorce, and you were trying to.
Travis Rickford: Talk to your wife about making some changes.
Travis Rickford: What? What? I I guess my 1st question is, what was, what were you? What? What were you trying to do there in that relationship? What needed to change with
Travis Rickford: your wife?
Christian: I felt she was narcissistic, but the counselor didn't agree.
Christian: but she lived in her own bubble
Christian: with no regard for anybody else.
Christian: and she was one of those people that would be linked.
Christian: She's going to be late to her own funeral, and that's the only positive about that.
Christian: And so I you know, I we.
Christian: my counselor, said, okay, we'll go to the concert without her.
Christian: Well, I don't want to do that.
Christian: So it got very, very frustrating
Christian: that she never really put in an effort to acquiesce, or at least, you know.
Christian: paint a picture that she was trying to appease me a little bit.
Christian: and again very frustrating it. It finally turned me off to the point where I stopped working on it.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Oh!
Travis Rickford: So when going back to the the drinking, were were you actively
Travis Rickford: drinking during that time as well, or was? Or was that this just recently.
Christian: No, I've pretty much drank my entire life.
Travis Rickford: Okay.
Travis Rickford: And when you, when you look at
Travis Rickford: you're you're drinking on a scale of of one to 5.
Travis Rickford: You know how important for it.
Travis Rickford: How important for it! How important to you is it to quit right now.
Christian: About a 3.
Travis Rickford: Okay.
Travis Rickford: And if that were, and if we were to move that 3 to a 4, what would that?
Travis Rickford: What would that entail, or what would that look like.
Christian: Less frequency.
Travis Rickford: Okay, so and when when you look at less frequency, what?
Travis Rickford: What have your your 2? Your 2 sons told you about your drinking. What have they expressed, as it relates to that.
Christian: And I'm sorry my sons.
Travis Rickford: Yeah.
Christian: The oldest has resigned himself to the fact that this is who I am, the younger one.
Christian: I pissed him off so much that I had to make a promise that I wouldn't drink around him.
Christian: and I've fulfilled both, or at least the one to the younger one.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Yeah.
Travis Rickford: How often do you get together with them? Do do you.
Christian: Well, we're in different cities. So it's physically, not frequently. But we're on the phone. Probably once a week.
Travis Rickford: Okay.
Travis Rickford: And so if you were to think about something that is going to build.
Travis Rickford: rebuild some of those relationships with your family, drinking less will
Travis Rickford: begin the process of doing that.
Christian: Definitely.
Travis Rickford: Okay?
Travis Rickford: And what might be a a reasonable goal that you would.
Travis Rickford: Wanna wanna look at. That would start moving you in that direction.
Christian: Well,
Christian: I don't really have physical problems with the drinking, like. I can go for days without drinking and not have tremors and things like that.
Christian: However, mentally, I'm pacing myself every other day, and then what I'm going to do over probably the next. The course of this exercise that we're involved in. Cut it back to either 3 or 4 days a week, where I don't drink.
Travis Rickford: And what's your long term goal? So
Travis Rickford: in the, in the immediate, you want to drink less, do you eventually want to get to the point where you're not doing it at all.
Christian: No.
Travis Rickford: Any any barriers that would get in the way of the frequency of your drinking.
Christian: habitual.
Christian: It's a routine I go through
Christian: at the end of the day, even though I don't work
Christian: it's nice to have a couple of pops at the end of the day.
Christian: And I have to fight that urge, or actually that habit.
Christian: And
Christian: I'm also trying to commit myself more to volunteering, which
Christian: makes me need to be sharp, and, you know, awake and motivated
Christian: at 8 in the morning, as opposed to 9 or 10.
Travis Rickford: So, having more activities to do and and schedule
Travis Rickford: helps with your goal to drink less.
Christian: Definitely, because it squeezes out the boredom.
Christian: And
Stacey Ford: And it feels good to do good things, you know.
Christian: Oh, I'm sorry!
Stacey Ford: And it feels good to do that to do good things. And then it, you know, after doing that, you feel great. It's it's better than not. It's better than drinking.
Christian: Oh, for sure!
Stacey Ford: You know. Volunteer. Yeah, doing doing that. Volunteering makes you feel good, and it sorry to interrupt you.
Travis Rickford: No, that that's fine that you bring up an interesting question, Stacy, and I want to open that up to the entire group
Travis Rickford: when when you're looking at quitting a harmful activity.
Travis Rickford: What are some strategies that worked for you? To be to begin to begin doing that?
Travis Rickford: And this is for anyone anyone can answer.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: I I had to check myself into rehab for me to quit.
Michael Whale: Yeah, me, too.
Travis Rickford: And.
Stacey Ford: What was?
Stacey Ford: Can you repeat the question?
Stacey Ford: Can you repeat the question? Please?
Travis Rickford: Yeah, I asked, what strategies? That you all had implemented to begin that step, and.
Stacey Ford: One big strategy for me was to be so disgusted dealing with my ex
Stacey Ford: going through life with him and being so fed up with it, and to the point where I just it's not a fun thing, you know. And and that's like, that's that's regarding alcohol, you know, I don't.
Stacey Ford: But yeah, being so fed up and tired of it.
Stacey Ford: and just totally it makes you hate it. It's not fun, it's not enjoyable
Stacey Ford: at all. That's how I feel.
Stacey Ford: Not that I don't drink because I do. But you know, regarding being fed up with him and being done with him, and the way that he parties and all that
Stacey Ford: being fed up with it.
Travis Rickford: And Kenneth and and, Michael, you you shared that your 1st step was making that decision to
Travis Rickford: go into rehab. Was that the initial step? Or was that your very 1st step, or was there something else that happened before you made the decision to do that.
Michael Whale: Well, I went to the hospital and.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Yeah.
Michael Whale: Yeah, check myself into the psych ward.
Michael Whale: And then from there I went to the rehab.
Travis Rickford: And and, Michael, I I see that Christian left. But, Michael, how? How are things now?
Travis Rickford: How are things going for you right now?
Michael Whale: I'm still trying to work it out. So I mean, it's not easy. It's not like something that's just gonna disappear. So.
Travis Rickford: And in terms of the.
Travis Rickford: the the use of different substances. How is how is that right now? Are you
Travis Rickford: clean, or are you still looking through.
Michael Whale: Not for the most part I'm clean, I mean better than I was before. So like I would need something
Michael Whale: to get me by today, like through today. You know what I mean. So
Michael Whale: but I'm taking it day by day. I mean, I'm taking medication for depression and anxiety and all that. So.
Stacey Ford: It's.
Travis Rickford: And when you think of, and when.
Stacey Ford: You can.
Travis Rickford: Something that's really important to you right now, in terms of where
Travis Rickford: you're at. What? What is that? What's important to you right now.
Michael Whale: To be in a better relationship with my kids, my girlfriend now, I mean, she's pretty much like over over what I'm doing right now, but she's always there for me, no matter what
Michael Whale: I get. I just gotta take everything for, you know. You know, I just gotta be more appreciative more
Michael Whale: the old boy in life, I guess, so. I didn't care about myself at all for a long, the longest time.
Michael Whale: and.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Shit.
Michael Whale: I'm just trying to get back to, you know, being, I guess, quote unquote, normal.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Hmm.
Travis Rickford: So. So tell me how you're you're putting on your
Travis Rickford: your mask, so to speak. What are some things that you're doing to take care of your yourself, and what you need.
Michael Whale: I gotta take my medication because I don't know every time I would take medication. I don't think it wasn't working, you know what I mean.
Michael Whale: But
Michael Whale: I you know I I just never give it a chance. So I I've been taking it. I I
Michael Whale: I feel a little bit different.
Michael Whale: But
Michael Whale: you know, I mostly I just gotta get my life back in order. It's just I'm just. It's always chaos.
Michael Whale: I'm just tired of it. So.
Travis Rickford: And what might be a a 1st step in in doing that.
Michael Whale: I'll just, you know. I'll just
Michael Whale: make sure everything is, you know my life, my! I have to
Michael Whale: to care about my kids. You care about my girlfriend. I I know I gotta care about myself more
Michael Whale: so and and I'm working on that. It's it's it's a working process right now. So.
Travis Rickford: Okay, what are what are some things that you're that you're trying out.
Michael Whale: Well, 1st of all medication, and then secondly, I guess I never really was one for meetings, but
Michael Whale: I mean I I don't mind. Small groups like the big groups like when I went to rehab like the big groups, is just a waste of time to me, because it's always the same people talking, and it just gets rowdy, you know, and it depends what rehab you. Go to you, too, you know.
Michael Whale: So the rehab I went to wasn't the greatest. It was more jail run than anything, so.
Travis Rickford: What? What do you enjoy doing? What are some things that you enjoy? Hobbies or
Michael Whale: Well, I like to work. I try, you know. I mean, that's 1 of my things. I do. I do. I mean, I always thought money was everything, but I guess not anymore.
Michael Whale: I don't know. I mean, I like, hang out with my kids going to the parks and stuff. You know what I mean? Just you know, I just want a normal life. So yeah.
Travis Rickford: You said you like to work. Is that what you what? What do you do?
Travis Rickford: What do you do for.
Michael Whale: Truck driver. Yeah.
Travis Rickford: And how do you do you like your job and enjoy it?
Michael Whale: No, I mean I I did in the beginning. So I was over the road truck driver, and now I'm just tired of being over the road. I gets lonely, so lonely, and
Michael Whale: you know I I have too much freedom. I could do whatever I want. You know what I mean like
Michael Whale: that. I could drink anytime. I could use anytime. You know what I mean. It's just I I need stability in my life. That's 1 thing I did never had. Even when I was a teenager. I just I always did whatever I wanted.
Travis Rickford: There's no guidance.
Michael Whale: So.
Travis Rickford: So let's let's take this off in in chunks. If we were to
Travis Rickford: when we come together next week or next a week from today?
Travis Rickford: What what might, what might look different?
Michael Whale: I'm not a hundred percent sure. I mean, I I can hope for things, but
Michael Whale: I don't know. I mean, I just just be more happier. I guess so.
Travis Rickford: Is there some activity that you could try?
Travis Rickford: we have. We have the holidays coming up.
Travis Rickford: do you? Do you get to interact with your children quite a bit.
Michael Whale: Yeah, I mean, there's really no custody thing with that. It's pretty much my fault with that, because you know about using and all that drinking and.
Stacey Ford: Hold on!
Michael Whale: So warm, everybody.
Stacey Ford: Yeah, but a lot of it was my fault. I mean, I can't. You know. I mean me and me and their mother. It's just.
Michael Whale: You know it. It's just complicated with that. But you know, my kids, it's just.
Michael Whale: you know. I mean, they they love me unconditionally. You know what I mean. So I mean, they've been all the things I've done to them, and you know, not being not being there, you know it's just.
Michael Whale: It's they still say they love me, which I don't understand. Why sometimes, but I mean
Michael Whale: that's our conditional, I guess right.
Travis Rickford: Is there any activities that you can do together that would help you and and them.
Michael Whale: Yeah, I mean, I could figure some things out. I always thought just buying them stuff would just make them happy when I was like out driving like what like, you know, I'll be out for months at a time, and then I'll come back, and I'll just bring them to the Mall and be like, all right, Dude, get what you want, and
Michael Whale: but that that doesn't bring them.
Michael Whale: It does, you know. I mean, it's just. I'm just buying a lot at that point. You know what I mean.
Travis Rickford: What might be a meaningful activity that you all could do together.
Travis Rickford: between now and next week might what might be something you could try.
Michael Whale: I don't know. I don't know yet.
Michael Whale: but I mean I'll I'll think of it so so.
Travis Rickford: Okay, does that. Does that sound like something that would be achievable before
Travis Rickford: before we come together next week is to find an activity.
Michael Whale: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'll let you know next week. So.
Travis Rickford: Okay.
Michael Whale: All right. Shannon Gina.
Travis Rickford: Or Kenneth. We haven't gotten to you, and I want to make sure that we do
Travis Rickford: before the end of the day. What's what's on your mind?
Travis Rickford: Anyone, Shannon, Gina, or Kenneth can go.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: I me and my girl we both went to rehab.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: and we're working on our relationship because the drugs just about killed us. To be honest.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: I mean, and when you care about somebody so much, and then
Kenneth Matthew Warner: let drugs get in the way of that, you know it's awful.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: So both of us went, and both of us are working on our sales.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: I'm definitely more than her, because I had the mental issues also to go with that that I've never
Kenneth Matthew Warner: been diagnosed with until I was in the rehab.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: So now I'm on like 8 different medications, and
Kenneth Matthew Warner: you know it's a work in progress right? And she is.
Travis Rickford: You said you.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Me, you know, and I'm supportive of her.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: So.
Travis Rickford: Sorry to interrupt you there.
Travis Rickford: You! You had mentioned that you had just got out of rehab
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Correct. How? How recent was that?
Kenneth Matthew Warner: October the 23.rd
Travis Rickford: Okay, what is your relationship? Right?
Travis Rickford: Right right now with your your girlfriend?
Kenneth Matthew Warner: It's getting better. I mean, it's wonderful. Actually it. There's no drugs involved. And we can focus on each other finally.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: And and it's a work in progress.
Travis Rickford: And when you think of things that are really important to you right now, is that relationship with your girlfriend sort of
Travis Rickford: top of mind? Or is there something else that is really important to you?
Kenneth Matthew Warner: That that is, that's a number one, you know, to me, because
Kenneth Matthew Warner: I mean we love each other, and it's it's great.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: and it's a shame that we
Kenneth Matthew Warner: got to the point where it almost destroyed us, you know.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: and and both of us are guilty from drug use.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: But we both realized it, and we both seen it, and we both went to rehab. So
Kenneth Matthew Warner: that's how much we care about each other.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: and a lot of people don't have that support, and I know that.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: But I do, and I think it's great.
Travis Rickford: And so do you both live together.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Yes, now we're back together.
Travis Rickford: Okay.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Yeah, back together. Now, before we went to rehab, I had moved out because of the drug use.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: and it was just all bad, you know.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: So.
Travis Rickford: So is there? There's something that you can
Travis Rickford: do together, since you both are in that post. Rehab that would
Travis Rickford: that would help both of you so to speak. Is there anything that you're doing.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Well, I mean where I'm going to counseling, and I'm taking my medication like I'm supposed to, and
Kenneth Matthew Warner: she's in outpatient treatment. I'm in outpatient treatment. So and we're just focusing on each other completely and and are there for each other. And
Kenneth Matthew Warner: without her I couldn't get through it. I don't think just to be honest.
Travis Rickford: So just being consistent with that post, rehab assistance and help.
Travis Rickford: That's your main priority right now. Is that am I reading that right.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Yes.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: yes, that's that's correct. The outpatient treatment and my my counseling, no matter how long it takes, I'm gonna stick with it.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: you know I was. I honestly done drugs for 35 years and every drug imaginable.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: I quit drinking on my own 16 years ago because I went to the store 1 1 time and bought me a 30 pack and stayed drunk for 10 years.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: and that's exactly what I've done. So 16 years ago I quit that. But the substance abuse continued, and just progressively got worse.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: So, and it's great that she's supportive.
Travis Rickford: And how can this group help you? What, what can be? What can be some things that this group can do to
Travis Rickford: assist you over the next few weeks.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: I I really don't have other than my counselors anybody to talk to, because I don't have any friends where I live.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: and I'm not very sociable to start with.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: I'm I'm I'm a lone wolf, and always have been
Kenneth Matthew Warner: so just somebody to talk to.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: you know, and share this with
Christian: Well, hey, man, if I can just say good work so far, man.
Stacey Ford: Me too.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Thank you.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: It's a struggle.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: And honestly, I couldn't do it without my metis. Just to be honest.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: that's medically assisted treatment for you guys that don't know. I take once a month brixoty shot, which is for my opiate abuse
Kenneth Matthew Warner: over the years, and and without it there's no way I could do it. Period.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Excuse me.
Travis Rickford: Well, well, thank you, Matthew.
Stacey Ford: I'm really proud of you for going through this and and being positive. And and you're gonna make it keep doing what you're doing. You're doing the right thing.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Thank you.
Travis Rickford: Shannon, or or Gina.
Travis Rickford: What's on your mind, Gina? I see you talking, and the the mute button.
Gina Knepp: Okay, there, I forgot. I was on mute.
Gina Knepp: I kind of have the same thing going as Kenneth did.
Gina Knepp: But, my boyfriend, he is on the side of not wanting to quit doing drugs and stuff and
Gina Knepp: well, we live together, and it's been really kind of hard to like. He'll leave late at night whenever I'm there with kids. And then during the day he doesn't have a job.
Gina Knepp: and he hasn't had a job for a long time, and
Gina Knepp: he goes out and does whatever he wants. And I'm there with kids, and it gets really frustrating.
Gina Knepp: and I don't want to leave him because I love him
Gina Knepp: and the kids that's their dad. So
Gina Knepp: I'm kind of. That's where I get my my depression and my anxiety and my like. I don't know. I get so mad, but I don't get mad. I don't know how you explain it like a
Gina Knepp: like something towards him like, and it makes I don't know. It makes it to where
Gina Knepp: we don't get along very well sometimes, so I don't.
Travis Rickford: And how old are your kiddos?
Gina Knepp: There, I have 2 boys that are 2 years old, and I have a little girl. She's 4 years old.
Travis Rickford: Okay. What are what are their names?
Gina Knepp: Cash and crew and jada.
Travis Rickford: Oh, I like I like all of those names.
Gina Knepp: Yes.
Stacey Ford: Super, cute.
Travis Rickford: What
Gina Knepp: Yes. Yeah.
Travis Rickford: What, Gina, what supports do you have in in your life?
Gina Knepp: Well, I want to be married to him, and I want to like raise our family and
Gina Knepp: be good and be normal, or I mean I
Gina Knepp: it's not normal now. I don't feel like
Gina Knepp: I mean, I'm 34. I want to be married. I mean, every girl wants to get married.
Gina Knepp: and he's he's actually he's divorced and has 2 other kids with someone else. And I think I'm the reason for that
Gina Knepp: break up. But I don't know, I just want to be normal and
Gina Knepp: us to be in a good relationship.
Travis Rickford: And what I mean by supports is do you have like a
Travis Rickford: a support system? What does your support system look like?
Travis Rickford: Do you have anyone. You frequently talk to.
Gina Knepp: Not really no.
Travis Rickford: Okay. So it's just.
Gina Knepp: Go ahead!
Travis Rickford: Now as well say a best friend or.
Gina Knepp: I have a I have a friend one. I have like one friend, and she's
Gina Knepp: she's not that great to talk to, because she's pretty messed up herself.
Gina Knepp: But I mean she's there for like the girl time. So if we need like a little girl talk, or I just need to get stuff off my mind. She's there to listen for sure.
Gina Knepp: But my family! I don't
Gina Knepp: really like to talk about it to them, because they? I mean they
Gina Knepp: that we grew. I grew up in a like a really good family like Amish midnight.
Gina Knepp: And yeah, they
Gina Knepp: I don't know. I just like if I would say something to them, they would probably look down on me or so. I don't know how to.
Stacey Ford: You.
Stacey Ford: You can call me time. I'll give you my number. So you someone.
Gina Knepp: Alright!
Stacey Ford: And I'm serious anytime.
Gina Knepp: That's good. Thank you.
Stacey Ford: Year, one.
Travis Rickford: Gina back to you. You were talking about your your family's background.
Travis Rickford: Is it your perception that they they wouldn't talk to you or.
Gina Knepp: Probably.
Travis Rickford: Or has that actually happened.
Gina Knepp: No, probably this is probably me.
Gina Knepp: It's probably me.
Travis Rickford: Is there a.
Gina Knepp: I was the oldest of the family, and I was the one that was always in trouble, or
Gina Knepp: being wild, or whatever, and the rest like I have
Gina Knepp: 4 sisters or 3 sisters and a brother, and they all are like
Gina Knepp: like perfect, almost like they never did anything like I've done. I don't know. Maybe it's just a
Gina Knepp: it's just what I think. I guess.
Travis Rickford: So. Is there anyone in your your family where.
Gina Knepp: You might.
Travis Rickford: Try and experiment to
Gina Knepp: Have a conversation, and.
Travis Rickford: And maybe it's not a conversation about
Travis Rickford: any of your issues at all. But just to to start to rebuild some of those relationships. Is there anyone in your family that you can
Travis Rickford: start that with? Who who would that be?
Gina Knepp: Probably my my sister Janice. She would be like 2 years younger than I would be, so
Gina Knepp: should be like the closest one. I think.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: She's.
Travis Rickford: And when's the last time you talked to Janice.
Gina Knepp: Well, I talked to her actually, today, but it's not. It wasn't about any of that what I was saying.
Gina Knepp: It was like I I come here. I'm at my I'm actually at my parents now. I come here every Wednesday to bring the kids and let them see their
Gina Knepp: grandpa and grandma.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: And
Gina Knepp: I just don't really like talk about my life and my struggles much with them.
Travis Rickford: And if you were to set aside some time with Janice
Travis Rickford: Oh, is there something you enjoy doing together? You and Janice.
Gina Knepp: Yeah, I guess. Go. We thrift thrift store shopping. I don't know.
Travis Rickford: Is there? Is there any way that
Travis Rickford: If if we had more time we would actually we could. We could test the conversation, see what it would look like. But
Travis Rickford: What what might that conversation look like if you were to say, Janice, I really need to visit with you about something.
Travis Rickford: How do you think Janice would respond to that.
Gina Knepp: Probably good. She would probably be like, Okay, yeah, let's let's go. Let's talk. What? What's up? I don't know.
Travis Rickford: Is that an experiment that feels comfortable to try between now and and next week?
Gina Knepp: Yeah, I could try it.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Okay. Yeah.
Travis Rickford: And and before we go to Shannon I'll I'll tell you
Travis Rickford: each of you, when we. I'll send you an email throughout the week, just to check in. See how things are going. But
Travis Rickford: At the beginning of the meeting next week we'll actually debrief on how our weeks went, and
Travis Rickford: and make some changes or pivot if we need to.
Travis Rickford: All right, Shannon, what's on? What's on your mind?
Travis Rickford: Oh, you're on mute, too.
Travis Rickford: I know that. Dang mute button. I I do it all the time.
Shannon: How about now?
Travis Rickford: Yes, we can hear you.
Shannon: Let's see. Well, I guess I'm gonna sound kind of like I'm repeating the last 2 people here.
Shannon: But has to do with my relationship.
Shannon: Let's see, I've been married for 14 years.
Shannon: and my husband, he's always been an addict and
Shannon: about like like I said before, 10 years ago, you know.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Bye.
Shannon: We started them.
Shannon: I don't know. I started using along with him and anymore, like.
Shannon: it's kind of like a daily battle to.
Shannon: you know, I'd like to try and
Shannon: get him to get him to stop using, because I don't want to use anymore.
Shannon: And you know, it's just I don't know. Our relationship could now improve some.
Travis Rickford: And what's your husband's name?
Shannon: Rob.
Travis Rickford: Describe the frequency in which you use right now? Is it daily weekly? What does that look like.
Shannon: Daily
Shannon: for the longest time. I always you know. I mean, I felt that we had a really good relationship, and
Shannon: we still do. It's just
Shannon: It's just the. It's just the drugs.
Shannon: and it doesn't help anything. And I know that.
Stacey Ford: I mean.
Shannon: So.
Travis Rickford: So do. Do you both want to quit? What's your what's your.
Shannon: Yeah.
Travis Rickford: Interest level and and quitting.
Shannon: Well, we both. We both want to quit as far as
Shannon: I mean I do, for sure.
Shannon: He says he does as well.
Shannon: So you know, we're we're working on it, and
Travis Rickford: You know what when you say you're.
Shannon: Things.
Shannon: Well, one of the things is we're working to to move like somewhere else, which I think if we had a
Shannon: either like a fresh start somewhere else.
Shannon: It would help a lot.
Travis Rickford: And so what is the and what is the likelihood that you'd be able to move somewhere else?
Shannon: Well, we're working on it. Probably
Shannon: maybe in the next couple of weeks we'll probably be going somewhere.
Shannon: He can. If he can find a good job in his
Shannon: working for a tool and die.
Travis Rickford: So what supports are you and your husband
Travis Rickford: seeking right now to help you quit.
Shannon: Oh, right now I mean
Shannon: nothing really right now, just.
Travis Rickford: And on a I'll use scale again on a scale of one to 5. How interested are you
Travis Rickford: and finding those supports.
Shannon: And well, me one on one like probably 5. Did you say? One to 5.
Travis Rickford: Yeah.
Shannon: 5.
Travis Rickford: 0 to 5.
Shannon: So.
Travis Rickford: Cool.
Travis Rickford: Well, let's let's start with you.
Travis Rickford: again using the mask analogy. But what? What's something that you could
Travis Rickford: that you could take the step towards that would.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: That's it.
Travis Rickford: Move you in that direction of of to quit using.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: But not.
Travis Rickford: Is there someone that you can reconnect with? Whether that be a a healthcare provider, or or a friend, or or someone.
Shannon: Yeah, probably. Actually, there's few people in the past that I could like a like an old counselor
Shannon: I can talk with.
Shannon: Maybe.
Travis Rickford: And
Travis Rickford: What's the the likelihood that you could
Travis Rickford: make a call to that counselor to set up an appointment between now and and next Wednesday.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Excuse me.
Shannon: You know I mean.
Shannon: I can usually try. I don't know. I don't know about their availability, but you know
Shannon: I I would do that try and set something up.
Travis Rickford: And do you and your I? And I'm sorry if I don't remember. Do you have any kids.
Shannon: Yes, we have 2. They're not at our home in our home right now.
Shannon: Okay, where? Where are they at?
Shannon: So.
Travis Rickford: They're your mom's.
Shannon: At his mother, at his mother's.
Travis Rickford: Okay, so your mother-in-law's, how is your relationship with
Travis Rickford: his parents and your parents? What does that relationship look like.
Shannon: Well, I mean, it's like it's it's good. I am.
Shannon: Let's see, we both just have our moms and
Shannon: you know, my mom lives here in Arizona, and I'm in Tennessee. So
Shannon: that's kind of, you know, hard to build a good relationship
Shannon: for them. For my husband and my mom, but you know I do pretty good.
Shannon: No, with our relation. My relationship with my mother-in-law. She's she's a really good lady.
Shannon: She's very helpful, too.
Travis Rickford: And how often do you talk to your mom.
Shannon: Well, I probably a few times a week, so.
Travis Rickford: Is she someone that has helped you before
Travis Rickford: with different things? Is she someone that you can talk to to
Travis Rickford: about your future and and things that you want to do.
Shannon: Yeah, yeah, I can definitely do that.
Travis Rickford: Is
Travis Rickford: talking with your your mom sort of a 1st step in making that plan, or is it contacting a therapist first.st
Shannon: Oh, probably just would work for my mom.
Shannon: As opposed to the therapist, because
Shannon: it's been a while since I talked to
Shannon: therapist or counselor. Well, I I did when I was in rehab
Shannon: people I'm speaking of was like years ago, so ugh!
Shannon: It'd be easier to talk with my mom.
Travis Rickford: Well,
Travis Rickford: A conversation with Mom. Sounds like where you're you're headed. Is that right?
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Yeah, definitely.
Travis Rickford: Okay.
Travis Rickford: Well, next week we'll we'll debrief on that, and
Travis Rickford: and and see how that goes.
Shannon: That's cool.
Travis Rickford: So we're we're near the the end of our time today. And and
Travis Rickford: what I want to do is just open it up to all of you.
Travis Rickford: How did you think today's session went overall.
Michael Whale: I think it went well, I mean
Michael Whale: especially to the to the guy that went to rehab himself. I I know how it is. I've been there, and I'm still going. I'm still fighting it. So
Michael Whale: so I it's not easy. It's a battle so
Michael Whale: so congratulations on your sobriety so far, so.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Thank you.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: It it is. It is a struggle, I mean. And for us today, when I think it went good, we all
Kenneth Matthew Warner: know something about each other, and a little bit of past, you know, so I enjoyed it.
Stacey Ford: I feel the same, and I apologize. I talk a lot I will work on that in the next week, and I really appreciate hearing all of your stories, and I'm looking forward to the next week.
Autumn McLaughlin: I didn't think I never felt comfortable like telling anyone about my past, but
Autumn McLaughlin: I don't know it kind of felt good just to say it.
Travis Rickford: That's great.
Travis Rickford: Thanks. Autumn.
Stacey Ford: My heart, my heart feels good. I'm happy so.
Travis Rickford: Well, fantastic. Well,
Travis Rickford: What I'll do between now and next week is you'll get an email from me just checking in to see how
Travis Rickford: everything is is going with some of the things that we talked about today, and what you would like to to focus on.
Travis Rickford: And then, if you have any trouble with receiving
Travis Rickford: the kits or anything. Please feel free to reach out to to Lena.
Travis Rickford: and she can assist with that.
Travis Rickford: And then also there's a specific
Travis Rickford: group in Grove for all of us. So if you'd like to connect through Grove, exchange phone numbers,
Travis Rickford: have an individual conversation with anybody
Travis Rickford: that will be open past our 3 weeks together, so you'll have access to that
Travis Rickford: But but with that I'll
Travis Rickford: let you all enjoy the rest of your Wednesday evening, and I'll look forward to seeing you
Travis Rickford: next week at the same time.
Travis Rickford: So the day before Thanksgiving.
Travis Rickford: and we can all check in and and see how everyone's doing. Does that sound? Okay?
Stacey Ford: Awesome.
Christian: Fantastic.
Michael Whale: Sounds good.
Autumn McLaughlin: Thank you.
Travis Rickford: All right.
Kenneth Matthew Warner: Sounds good to me.
Shannon: Thank you.
Travis Rickford: Well, have a great evening, everyone, and I will see you next week.
Christian: Thank you.
Christian: Yes.
Shannon: See, then.
Michael Whale: Alright, bye.
Autumn McLaughlin: Thank you.